As Google algorithms are constantly evolving, it’s getting more difficult to rank your website in top SERPs. With tremendous advancements and implementation of state-of-the-art technologies like AI and Semantic Search, it’s quite clear that Google is now smarter than ever. The latter gives you the most relevant results for a search query by understanding the search intent of the users. Apart from that, there are many other factors involved like content quality, relevance to the domain, DA score of a website and its page authority. So you see it’s not that easy to rank a webpage on the first page of Google as many of the traditional methods don’t work anymore or let’s say they are not as effective as they used to be.    

So what else do you think can be done to rank your website faster on Google? Of course, putting in the appropriate keywords and optimizing your content for SEO is a must but the question is how to make the most of your SEO efforts. In this blog, I’ll guide you on how to effectively optimize your inbound links to rank higher in SERP. 


Why Internal Links Are Important?
The use of internal and external is a proven SEO tactic and is perhaps the most crucial part of on-page SEO. But more often than usual, the marketers don’t fully utilize the potential of inter-linking. When performed wisely, inter-linking can provide you with some immediate and long-term benefits in terms of better page authority and improved search rankings. A piece of content should contain both internal and external links but the ratio is ideally 3:1 which indicates that internal links are slightly more important. 

As a matter of fact, following the right internal linking structure along with the appropriate anchor text can bring a drastic change in a website’s search engine rankings. According to Hubspot, internal linking is the most crucial part of a content marketing strategy as it improves the DA score of a website and helps you rank faster on difficult keyword phrases. So, there must be an effective internal link structure in your website pages from SEO’s perspective. 


Basic Link Structure For An Effective SEO
First and foremost, make a list of your most important website pages that you want to link with the new landing page as primary link destinations. The best approach is to link your article with conversion-optimized landing pages by giving appropriate CTAs. However, if there are certain terms in your blog that you have previously explained in a recent article, you can provide a link to that article as well. Just make sure it is relevant to what you are going to explain in this blog. By linking to these pages, you are telling Google that your website has an extensive pool of knowledge on this particular topic and that your website should be placed on top when someone searches for similar queries.  


Content Clustering
Content clusters have gained a lot of traction these days. These are the popular linking structures, mainly incorporating inbound links that help you drive organic traffic to your website and improve SERP rankings. Content clusters are highly lucrative and play a crucial role in reducing your bounce rate, improving DA score and keeping your users hooked to the content. By creating clusters, you are telling Google that your website has extensive knowledge on this particular topic and that it should be ranked higher in searches. Clusters can be easily created around a specific topic and by linking other pages with similar content with one page that covers all the information on that particular topic. 

For example, if you are selling bakery products in the United States, create a landing page on your website that covers all the information on this topic. After that create several landing pages with similar keywords like Bakery Products in Texas, Bakery Products in Colorado, Offers on Bakery Products etc. and link them all with the main page. By doing that, you have created a cluster around the keyword, ‘Bakery Products in the United States.’ You can also link all these pages with one another for better results.   
  

